---
title: "Post OSCP"
categories:
  - CTF
tags:
  - Post OSCP
---

Where to go when you’ve tried harder?

The OSCP and associated PWK labs is almost a de facto rite of passage for many penetration testers and is often a key steppingstone when moving from an entry level to mid-level positions. This is generally because there is no real way to ‘fake it’. If you don’t put the time/effort in during lab time, you’ll be taken apart when it comes to the exam.

The main drawback to OSCP/PWK, is the limited active directory (AD) experience it gives budding penetration testers. The nuances of AD can take a lifetime to truly understand, but a basic understanding is critical if you are to progress and be effective in this field. In order obtain a similar learning experience to that of the OSCP/PWK labs budding penetration testers may look at some of the pro labs on HTB, such as RastaLabs. This is exactly what I did. Pumped up from my recent OSCP success I decided to sign up for a month under the old pricing scheme believing it more than enough time to learn/hack my way in – oh how wrong I was. RastaLabs tagline of ‘OSCP has no power here. Cry harder!’ definitely rings true as the pro-labs are in no way a beginner learning experience. I ended up spending so much time researching the basics that by the time my month was up I had made minute progress and was left disheartened. So much so I have only recently started looking at the lab again in my free time. This isn’t to say I didn’t learn an immense amount from the experience, and I would highly recommend the pro-lab to anyone wanting a challenge; it simply isn’t for AD beginners and isn’t a natural progression step from OSCP/PWK in my humble opinion.

Since my time doing the OSCP/first attempted at rastalabs (about a year ago), a number of easier AD boxes have appeared on HTB. While not representing an entire AD laboratory to attack, they each individually showcase some of the techniques/skillsets required when attacking these environments. Therefore, I thought I’d do a brief series running through some of the boxes and techniques to provide new penetration testers a roadmap to up their AD skillset.

| ----------- |
|[Forest]({{site.url}}/ctf/HTBForest/)|
|[Active]({{site.url}}/ctf/HTBActive/)|
|Sniper - comming soon|
|Reel - comming soon| 
|Resolute – waiting for retirement|
|Montiverte – waiting for retirement|
|Sauna – waiting for retirement|

